Installation of screen3.3

0.)
Unpack. Screen comes as a compressed tar archive. You need gzip to uncompress.
But... you probably already managed that step, when you are reading this.

1.)
Run configure. This should create a Makefile and a config.h file
suited for your machine. Rename config.status to reflect the architecture 
(hostname) where it was built. To reconfigure quickly for that architecture
just run that config.status file.
If this process fails, try to find out what configure did do and what it
should have checked. Mail me.

2.)
Look through the Makefile & user configuration section in config.h and check the
pathnames. Change them to suit your installation requirements.

3.)
You may well run screen from your private binary directory and with a 
private socket directory like $HOME/.screen. But to have a full featured
screen and (from a users point of view) more secure pty's you should
consult a system administrator and discuss installing screen setuid-root
in some globally accessible directory like /usr/local/bin.

Consider this, when deciding whether you install screen setuid-root:
- On some machines root priviliges are required to open pty's. 
- Pty's should be owned by the user, so that she can do chmod to prevent
  intrudor attacks.
- The ^At feature may need to lseek and read the kernel file to retrieve 
  the load average.
- On most machines utmp slots can only be created/manipulated with root
  privileges. 
- Multi-user screen sessions are only allowed when screen has a root-s-bit.

4.)
The creation of term.h, comm.h, tty.c or osdef.h may fail on some machines
for some odd reason. (E.g. the sed under SCO-unix is known to be 
case-insensitive and breaks term.h) If so, please mail a short description 
of the problem to screen@uni-erlangen.de and use the files ending in .dist 
as a replacement (or in case of osdef.h retry with an empty file).

5.)
The man page screen.1 should go to /usr/local/man/man1, or some similar
directory. It should format nicely with nroff -man. If it does not, then
try removing extra dots with: sed -e 's/^\.\././' < screen.1 | nroff -man 
Look through the etcscreenrc file for system wide defaults that you like to 
set. e.g. autodetach off, startup_message off, vbell on, ... 
Install it to match the pathname specified in config.h

6.)
Since version 3.2.15 the screenrc file syntax changed slightly. All rc files
from previous versions should be run through the newsyntax script that comes 
with this package.

Juergen Weigert. (screen@uni-erlangen.de)
