"screen" is a window manager that allows you to handle several independent
screens (UNIX ttys) on a single physical terminal; each screen has its own
set of processes connected to it (typically interactive shells).  Each
virtual terminal created by "screen" emulates a DEC VT100 plus several ANSI
X3.64 functions (including DEC VT102 features such as line and character
deletion and insertion).

Since "screen" uses pseudo-ttys, the select system call, and UNIX-domain
sockets, it will not run under a system that does not include these
features of 4.2 and 4.3 BSD UNIX.

If you want to get a quick idea how "screen" works but don't want to read
the entire manual, do the following:
 
     -  call "screen" without arguments
     -  wait for the shell prompt; execute some commands
     -  type ^A ^C (Control-A followed by Control-C)
     -  wait for the shell prompt; do something in the new window
     -  type ^A ^A repeatedly to switch between the two windows
     -  terminate the first shell ("screen" switches to the other window)
     -  terminate the second shell

If you have got "vttest" (the VT100 test program from mod.sources) you
may want to run it from within "screen" to verify that it correctly
emulates a VT100 on your terminal (except for 132 column mode and
double width/height characters, of course).

By the way, "screen" can be used to compensate for certain bugs of "real"
VT100 terminals.  For instance, our 4.2 BSD version of mille(6) garbles
the display on terminals of the VT100 family, but it works quite fine
when it is invoked from within "screen".  In addition, "screen" enables
you to use EMACS on terminals that are unable to generate Control-S and
Control-Q from the keyboard or that require flow control using Control-S
and Control-Q.  This is the reason why I have an alias like
     alias emacs "screen emacs"
in my .cshrc file.


I have published a beta-test release of screen in the non-moderated
sources newsgroup four months ago.  Since then I have received numerous
suggestions for enhancements and improvements, many of which I have
included in this release of "screen".  One person reported that screen
does not work correctly on the Ann Arbor Guru-XL; I have not been able
to track the problem down without having more detailed information than
just the termcap entry.

Major changes between this and the beta-test release are:

    -  "screen" now creates an entry in /etc/utmp for each virtual
       terminal
    -  the owner of the tty file for a virtual terminal is set properly
       (provided that "screen" is set-uid with owner root)
    -  the -c option has been eliminated; you can now start a command
       in a new window with "screen [cmd [args]]"
    -  a (user-settable) notification can be displayed in the current
       window's message line when the bell is rung in a background window
    -  a "chdir" command can be placed into ".screenrc" to facilitate
       creation of windows in specific directories
    -  flow control can be disabled by means of a command line option or
       a special termcap symbol (necessary for EMACS)
    -  "C-a s" and "C-a q" can be used to send a Control-S or a Control-Q,
       respectively (for certain terminals)
    -  it is no longer necessary to specify the full pathname when a
       command is started in a new window (and with the "bind" command)
    -  "C-a ." can be used to write the current termcap entry to a file
       (useful for "rlogin" which does not propagate TERMCAP)
    -  "C-a C-t" displays status information (e.g. the load average and
       the virtual terminal's parameters) in the message line
    -  "C-a C-\" closes all windows and terminates screen

Before typing "make", you should have a look into the Makefile.
If your system maintains a 4.3-BSD-style load average, add -DLOADAV to
the compiler options.  In addition, you must set -DGETTTYENT if your
system has the new format /etc/ttys and the getttyent(3) routines.

"screen" should be granted read and write access to /etc/utmp and, if
-DLOADAV has been specified, read access to /vmunix and /dev/kmem.
"screen" should be installed with set-uid and owner root to enable it
to correctly change the owner of newly allocated virtual terminals.
Failing to do this (e.g. if you fear a trojan horse) doesn't have any
major disadvantages, except that w(1) and some other utilities may have
some problems with the tty files of your virtual terminals.


Have fun,
    Oliver Laumann
    Technical University of Berlin,
    Communications and Operating Systems Research Group.

    net@tub.BITNET     US: pyramid!tub!net     Europe: unido!tub!net

